# dps(1) -- a DjVu to PDF converter

## SYNOPSIS

`dpsprep` [options] src [dest]

## DESCRIPTION

This tool, initially made specifically for use with Sony's Digital Paper System (DPS), is now a general-purpose DjVu to PDF converter with a focus on small output size and the ability to preserve document outlines (e.g. TOC) and text layers (e.g. OCR).

## OPTIONS

* `-q`, `--quality`:           Quality of images in output. Used only for JPEG compression, i.e. RGB and Grayscale images. Passed directly to Pillow and to OCRmyPDF's optimizer.
* `-p`, `--pool-size`:         Size of MultiProcessing pool for handling page-by-page operations.
* `-v`, `--verbose`:           Display debug messages.
* `-o`, `--overwrite`:         Overwrite destination file.
* `-w`, `--preserve-working`:  Preserve the working directory after script termination.
* `-d`, `--delete-working`:    Delete any existing files in the working directory prior to writing to it.
* `-t`, `--no-text`:           Disable the generation of text layers. Implied by --ocr.
* `-m`, `--mode`:              Image mode. The default is to ask libdjvu for the image mode of every page. It sometimes makes sense to force bitonal images since they compress well.
* `--ocr`                      Perform OCR via OCRmyPDF rather than trying to convert the text layer. If this parameter has a value, it should be a JSON dictionary of options to be passed to OCRmyPDF.
* `-O1`:                       Use the lossless PDF image optimization from OCRmyPDF (without performing OCR).
* `-O2`:                       Use the PDF image optimization from OCRmyPDF.
* `-O3`:                       Use the aggressive lossy PDF image optimization from OCRmyPDF.
* `--help`:                    Show this message and exit.

## EXAMPLES

Produce `file.pdf` in the current directory:

    dpsprep /wherever/file.djvu

Produce `output.pdf` with reduced image quality and aggressive PDF image optimizations:

    dpsprep ---quality=30 -O3 input.djvu output.pdf

Produce an output file using a large pool of workers:

    dpsprep --pool=16 input.djvu

Force bitonal images:

    dpsprep --mode bitonal input.djvu

Produce an output file by disregarding the text layer and running OCRmyPDF instead:

    dpsprep --ocr '{"language": ["rus", "eng"]}' input.djvu

Or simply disregard the text layer without OCR:

    dpsprep --no-text input.djvu

## NOTE REGARDING COMPRESSION

We perform compression in two stages:

* The first one is the default compression provided by Pillow. For bitonal images, the PDF generation code says that, if `libtiff` is available, `group4` compression is used.

* If OCRmyPDF is installed, its PDF optimization can be used via the flags `-O1` to `-O3` (this involves no OCR). This allows us to use advanced techniques, including JBIG2 compression via `jbig2enc`.

If manually running OCRmyPDF, note that the optimization command suggested in the documentation (setting `--tesseract-timeout` to `0`) may ruin existing text layers. To perform only PDF optimization you can use the following undocumented tool instead:

    python -m ocrmypdf.optimize <input_file> <level> <output_file>
